this is the home of one of the
most remarkable animal athletes
on the planet
this is a fishing bat here in a
forest in southern belize she's
coming out of her home in the
cedar tree to pinpoint the sound
of her prey
here's what she's after fish
meeting at the surface of the
water the mother bad readies to
swoop down and capture Emil she
has to fuel up so she can make
milk for her hungry baby he
called up now with the speed
timing and artistry of an
all-star football league
receiver she scales she scars
well let's see that again truth
be told this mother path is even
more artful than NFL tight end
because she's using perfect
timing to grab a prize that
doesn't want to be grabbed
another bathroom sometimes catch
you need 30 fish in one night
lest you think that's unfair for
the pitch well think again
sometimes pray bites back even
as these bats flutter around in
search of their next meal
these catfish eyeball the bats
waiting for one to slip up the
bats slope down to refresh
themselves only vaguely aware of
the catfish
I mean what's to worry about the
bats are quick agile and air
worthy
the catfisher slow sluggish and
seba then one bath dives with
too much enthusiasm it becomes
waterlogged and can't achieve
liftoff
now the catfish have a chance
the bad rashes and frustration
the catfish stir
the more the battle royals the
waters the more it excites the
fish the catfish move in for the
capture the bad tries to
scramble up a rock but it's too
slippery the slow deliberate
catfish grounds the quick agile
bat in its jaws
what the spike of their powers
the man out of its reach at the
last possible second doggy bat
flies off and hangs itself to
dry pondering a near-death
experience